docs(playwright-engine): add UI and CLI guides and migration recipe (#4013)
kubeshop/tracetest: docs/docs/examples-tutorials/recipes/migrating-tests-from-playwright-integration-to-playwright-engine.mdx

---
id: migrating-tests-from-playwright-integration-to-playwright-engine

> title: Migrating tests from Playwright integration to Playwright Engine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Migrating Tests from Playwright Integration to Playwright Engine
```

[Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) is an open-source automation framework developed by Microsoft that enables cross-browser automation for web applications. It provides a set of APIs and libraries for automating interactions with web browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, and Microsoft Edge.

## Why is this important?

### Playwright Engine

The [Tracetest Playwright Engine](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tests-with-tracetest-playwright-engine) trigger enables you to combine the power of end-to-end tests with trace-based testing to easily capture a full distributed trace from your OpenTelemetry instrumented front-end and back-end system.

### Playwright Integration

The [Tracetest integration for Playwright](/tools-and-integrations/playwright) enables your current Playwright tests to easily capture a full distributed trace from your OpenTelemetry instrumented frontend and backend system. You can embed a Tracetest in this Playwright test, and allow trace-based testing assertions to be applied across this entire flow, enabling true end-to-end tests across your entire system.

### Why Migrate to Playwright Engine?

> By creating a Tracetest Playwright Engine test, you will be able to create trace-based assertions to be applied across the entire flow like any other Tracetest test. Not only that but it allows you to mix and match it with your existing Monitors, Test Suites and CI/CD validations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By creating a Tracetest Playwright Engine test, you will be able to create trace-based assertions to be applied across the entire flow like any other Tracetest test. It also allows you to mix and match it with your existing Monitors, Test Suites and CI/CD validations.
```

  await page.getByLabel("Name").fill("Charizard");
  await page.getByLabel("Type").fill("Flying");
  await page
    .getByLabel("Image URL")
    .fill("https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/1/1f/Pok%C3%A9mon_Charizard_art.png");
  await page.getByRole("button", { name: "OK", exact: true }).click();
});

test("Playwright: imports a pokemon", async ({ page }) => {
  expect(await page.getByText("Pokeshop")).toBeTruthy();

  await page.click("text=Import");

  await page.getByLabel("ID").fill("143");

  await Promise.all([
    page.waitForResponse((resp) => resp.url().includes("/pokemon/import") && resp.status() === 200),
    page.getByRole("button", { name: "OK", exact: true }).click(),
  ]);
});

test("Playwright: deletes a pokemon", async ({ page }) => {
  await page.locator('[data-cy="pokemon-list"]');

  await page.locator('[data-cy="pokemon-card"]').first().click();
  await page.locator('[data-cy="pokemon-card"] [data-cy="delete-pokemon-button"]').first().click();
});
```

## Tracetest Playwright Engine Test

Running a Tracetest test with the [Playwright Engine](/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tests-with-tracetest-playwright-engine) requires you to do 3 things:

> 1. Add the target URL of your website

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the target URL of your website.
```

> 2. Upload your existing unedited Playwright test script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Upload your existing unedited Playwright test script.
```

> 3. Select the exported method to execute from the Playwright test script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the exported method to execute from the Playwright test script.
```
